=============
Final Remarks
=============

.. _join_the_discussion:

Join the discussion
===================

You can get in contact with Cuckoo's developers and users through the `official
mailing list`_ kindly provided by `The Honeynet Project`_ or through IRC on the
official `#cuckoobox`_ channel.

.. _`official mailing list`: https://public.honeynet.org/mailman/listinfo/cuckoo
.. _`#cuckoobox`: irc://irc.freenode.net/cuckoobox

Contribute
==========

We often get contacted by people willing to contribute. Most of the times they
consist of unexperiences users. Other times they never end what they started or
promised.

There are a lot of ways to contribute to an open source project, not only developing
it but also donating or sponsoring hardware for testing, reporting bug or 
suggesting new features to improve software, donating money to fund costs like 
hosting, or simply publishing Cuckoo around the web. Any kind of help is really
appreciated and help Cuckoo project.

Cuckoo is a simple but still somewhat complex software, therefore we are very
careful on who and how can contribute actively developing the software. This
doesn't mean that we don't accept any, but before coming to us please make sure
that you are seriously committed into contributing and that you have the
required knowledge and experience using Cuckoo and understanding how it works.

The best way to get involved is to :ref:`join_the_discussion` and start writing
code by your own: patches, new modules, new analysis packages. Reflect on what
you believe Cuckoo lacks on and do it.

Donations
=========

Cuckoo is software released freely to the public and developed during spare time
by volunteers only. If you enjoy it and want to see it kept on being developed
and maintained, please consider making a donation.

We receive small donations through `Flattr`_.

If you want to make a larger donation or provide a different form of support
(such as hardware, connectivity, hosting, anything) you can contact us at
``donations at cuckoobox dot org``.

.. _`Flattr`: http://flattr.com/thing/394890/Cuckoo-Sandbox

People
======

Cuckoo Sandbox is an open source project result of the efforts and contributions
of a lot of people who enjoyed volunteering some of their time for a greater
good :).

Active Developers
-----------------

    +-----------------------------+--------------------+---------------------------------+
    | Name                        | Role               | Contact                         |
    +=============================+====================+=================================+
    | Claudio "*nex*" Guarnieri   | Lead Developer     | ``nex at cuckoobox dot org``    |
    +-----------------------------+--------------------+---------------------------------+
    | Alessandro "*jekil*" Tanasi | Developer          | ``alessandro at tanasi dot it`` |
    +-----------------------------+--------------------+---------------------------------+

Contributors
------------

    * Dario Fernandes :sub:`(participated to Google Summer of Code 2011, introduced chook and improved cmonitor)`
    * Stefan Hausotte :sub:`(provided suggestions on improving the injection and hooking mechanisms)`
    * Giacomo Milani :sub:`(notified some bugs)`
    * Andre' Nordbo :sub:`(contributed to data visualization)`
    * Kjell Christian Nilsen :sub:`(provided valuable feedback and several feature suggestions$
    * JD :sub:`(contributed with multi-platform code optimization)`

Acknowledgements
----------------

    * Felix Leder :sub:`(for mentoring and believing in the project in the first place)`
    * Mark Schloesser :sub:`and` Angelo dell'Aera :sub:`(for helping on Python matters)`
    * Georg Wicherski :sub:`(for supporting the project and giving it a home at first place)`
    * Carsten Willems :sub:`(for the precious suggestions provided)`
    * `The Honeynet Project`_ :sub:`(for supporting the project)`
    * `The Shadowserver Foundation`_ :sub:`(for supporting the project)`
    * `Rapid7`_ :sub:`(for supporting the project)`
    * Everyone using Cuckoo :sub:`(for giving a sense to all of this)`

.. _`The Honeynet Project`: http://www.honeynet.org
.. _`The Shadowserver Foundation`: http://www.shadowserver.org
.. _`Rapid7`: http://www.rapid7.com
